# Underlying Theory of Proposed Literature

### Question: What are the concepts, definitions and relevant scholarly literature that serve as the basis for the existing theory that is used for your particular study (these may not be sources you have selected, but are instead found in the references of the sources you have chosen).  Are you able to identify theories that your sources use as the basis to explain the meaning, nature, and challenges associated with the phenomenon you are investigating?  How does your identified theory or theoretical framework serve to explain that phenomenon and how are you able to use that knowledge to better understand the process and investigate it in a more informed and effective manner?

Two of my presented articles are based or make reference to the Kuznets Curve theory. The theory was initially proposed by Simon Kuznets [1]. It is originally based in economics, saying that the inequality of an economy is at first low when GDP per capita is low. As GDP per capita increases for the country, the inequality also increases. It is not a linear relationship, however, as the curve is concave down and reaches a maximum before once again decreasing. Once it hits this critical point of economic inequality, it is customary that a country begins to look towards increasing the benefits of society, whether through welfare or other ways of spreading the wealth. These measures decrease the economic inequality, in theory returning back to the initial level of equality. This theory has gone beyond the concept of just economic inequality, modeling the environmental use. In this case, the y axis is replaced with economic degradation. The basis of the environmental theory is that a country with low GDP per capita is focused on increasing wealth by any means necessary, taking advantage of the natural resources they have and by effect harming the environment. As the GDP per capita increases, the country or region is able to divert focus from the mindset of using anything to increase economic wealth, but rather focuses on restoring the environment by planting trees or other environmentally beneficial actions.

This theory can thus be applied to the question of increased Avian Influenza by seeing it in the lense of urban development rather than strictly economic development. This application is similar to how it was subsequently applied to the concept of environmental degradation. In this sense, researchers analyze how at first urban development is equal, followed by inequality, and an eventual return to equality. Since the economic development catalyzed by foreign direct investment is still recent, the area is similarly just at the start of its urban development. Based on the Kuznets curve, it would be expected that the area is rampant with urban inequality, characterized by failing infrastructure or undesirable living conditions. These predictions have been repeatedly supported by the first hand evidence of the area, increasing likelihood of the disease transmission. This base theory then allows a quantification of urbanization inequalities including the aforementioned characteristics to have a concrete evaluation of disease risk in the area. The quantification of the area comes from the ability to match avian influenza data and rising numbers with areas which are most in a transitional state, since this transition would predict a high level of urban inequality based on the theory. 

The theory proves useful in its ability to narrow down on the most probable faults of the system. It indicates that those areas which are in transition, peri-urban areas, are most likely to be with the highest levels of inequality. This allows researchers to narrow their focus to these areas to fully analyze and quantify the risks of the area. The observed risks from the studies included inadequate housing infrastructure such as flushing toilets [2]. This allows a more informed and effective manner because it decreases the scope of the problem form all urban areas, instead allowing attention to go to those areas most in transition. 

Refrences:
1. Kuznets S. Economic growth and income inequality. Am Econ Rev. 1955;45(1):1–28

2. Spencer, J., Finucane, M., Fox, J., Saksena, S., &amp; Sultana, N. (2019, October 14). Emerging infectious disease, the household built environment characteristics, and urban planning: Evidence on avian influenza in Vietnam. Retrieved October 11, 2020, from https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169204619313465 
